# .package.json File
The `.package.json` is used for both **packages** and the **root package**.
A `.package.json` is located in the **root** of the project and has the form:

```json
{
    "name": "<vendor>/<name>",
    "description": "<description>",
    "keywords": [ 
        <keywords> 
    ],
    "website": "<website>",
    "license": "<license>",
    "authors": [
        {
            "name": "<author-name>",
            "email": "<author-email>",
            "website": "<author-website>"
        }
    ],
    "options": {
        <options>
    },
    "modules": [
        <modules>
    ],
    "requires": [
        {
            "name": "<require-vendor>/<require-name>",
            "version": "<require-version>",
            "options": {
                <require-options>
            }
        }
    ],
    "assets": [
        {
            "name": "<asset-vendor>/<asset-name>",
            "version": "<asset-version>"
        }
    ],
    "install": [
        <install>
    ],
    "dev": {
        <dev-settings>
    }
}
```

### Root Package Required Only
The `name` descriptor is only used in the root package.

* `vendor` What vendor is this package from.
* `name` How is the package called.

### Optional

* `description` A description of the project.
* `keywords` An array of strings containing keywords of the project.
* `websites` The website where the project is hosted.
* `license` Under what license this project falls.

----

* `modules` A list of modules in the form `<vendor>/<name>` that get installed or updated when running `install-package`.

----

* `options` What options the project has, and their default values.

----

* `author-name` The name of the author.
* `author-email` The authors email address.
* `author-website` The authors website.

----

### requires 

* `require-vendor` What vendor are we requiring a package from.
* `require-name` How is the package called.
* `require-version` What [version](versions) do you want.  

----

* `require-options` A **key-value** pairs that defines the default options.

----

* `require-override-project` What projects are we adding build settings to in this package.
* `require-overrides` Specify a new block of commands that will be [appended](overrides).

----

### assets 

* `asset-vendor` What vendor are we requiring a asset from.
* `asset-name` How is the asset called.
* `asset-version` What [version](versions) do you want.

----

### install 

* `install` a list of files that contain [installer](../../installer/installer.md) commands.

----

### dev 

* `dev` This section allows you to define `requires`, `assets` and `install` sections that are 
executed only when this is the **root** package. See [this](dev) for more information.

----

## Related Pages

* [Dev](dev)
* [Overrides](overrides)
* [Versions](versions)